The first thing I'll really wanna
get into with you all is hooks.
And we're gonna go into hooks in depth so
you can really understand all the various
hooks available to you in react.
So, let's go into the hooks in depth part.
And to the use state one.
So at the top of this one is
a link to a code sandbox,
code sandbox is just a code pen.
Or it's like an online editor that's kind
of stripped down where you can kind of do
experiments and
share them with people and I'm a big fan.
So, for this hooks in depth section,
all of it is going to be
using this code sandbox.
Take a second to come up here, And
you can see here I have a very stripped
down version of the repo here, right?
So I have a, this is all on GitHub.
It's on react hooks examples, stash v3
if you want to go fix anything on that.
You can see here that's
importing react DOM.
And then we have all these various
different components here,
which I'm breaking apart
with horizontal rules,
which is not a HTML element
that you see super frequently.
So you can see here we have
something like 10 components here.
And so they use state one here is the use
state example the use effect one here is
the use effect one and we're just going
to go on component by component and
explain to you all the various
different hooks that you can do.
So let's go ahead and dive into this
first one here which is state, So
it's called State.js.
And this is something that you
probably already understood before but
let's just go on to make sure
that we understand you stay for
us because basically everything
depends on you state.
So if you don't understand you state,
you're gonna have a bad time.
Let's see, maybe this just
a little bit further out but
then we can see and do a wrap.
Yeah, that's better.
Okay, bigger again and
make this, there we go.
Okay, so you state at its most basic
allows you to hold on to state.
So, a good example this is I have
this useState, I think it's an h1.
H1 that just goes back and
forth between lime green and crimson.
So on click is shifting over to be green
by setting it to be the opposite of
whatever it was, right?
So you can think of you state is
just like a very simple container.
For state, so I have used to here I have
true, true is gonna be the default value.
So whenever this gets rendered the first
time is green is going to be true.
And then I have this
ability to set is green.
Now whenever I call set is green No matter
what even if I say set is green true
again, it's going to kick off a rerender.
And it might choose not to end up re
rendering that if it detects that none of
the state changed but it might.
So you can basically just think about
every time that I'm calling set is green
is going to kick off an entire
another rerender cycle for you.
Any questions about use state?
>> Yeah,
just a quick clarification question.
So when it rerenders is it re
rendering that one component only or
is it re rendering
everything in that page?
>> React is pretty smart about
what it chooses to rerender and
what it doesn't choose to rerender that's
actually how react is able to get some
pretty good performance benefits, right?
So like a good example this if I scroll
down on here, you can see that I have like
a last rerender here, despite the fact
that this is all one react application,
this is not going up, right?
Whereas like if I clicked on this
right now, notice that it does go up.
So the thing I'll tell you is like,
it doesn't kick off and
rerender everything but you're also
not always going to be positive
of what it's going to render and what it's
not going to render So in other words,
make sure all of your
renders are very performant.
Right, because if they're not performance,
you're going to greatly slow
down your application because
those renders can happen a lot.
Like you can see this one here,
this is re rendering every second.
So and that's, it can be much
more fast than that as well.
So the question is,
does it re render its children, and
it's at least going to attempt
to re render its children.
So if you still had children, it would
attempt to rerender its children as well.
But again this magic reacts scheduler and
so you're not always totally positive of
where it's gonna be able to
optimize performance more.
It's not going to be, so
in general just write performant code.
Just write good code.
I think that's the summary of my
story here is write your code well.
General life advice with Brian.
So the question is I get like a whole slew
of data and I know some of the components
don't need to update and
maybe they're expensive to update.
So it do I have like a knob
that I can go in and say, hey,
definitely don't really rerender this even
though you might want to answer is yes.
So there is a lifecycle method on class
components called should component update.
And should component update allows
you to go in there and say I know
that you maybe your state changed and
you might want to re render but
I'm going to tell you right now you don't
need to and you can just return false and
that should component update method.
So something we're going
to talk about today but
that's some kind of like advanced react
perf stuff that you can get into.
There's a temptation when people
learn about should component update,
that they're gonna go in there and
like throw it on every component
that they have and do not do that.
You're gonna make your code so
much harder to understand like,
why is this not re rendering, right?
So, the first what I'm gonna suggest you
with all these kinds of like, advanced
react perf things is, have a problem
first and then solve a problem, right?
So have a performance problem
with whatever components
you have first don't preemptively solve
it because it makes your component a lot
more complicated to understand.